In the last lecture we turned on authentication on the firebase database by setting the rules to these
rules here, now
our frontend fails and we therefore updated our catch blocks in the places file to catch the right
errors here.
Now whilst it's nice to see that our error checking is working and that our backend is protected,
how could we now access it?
For this we need to use that token we get when logging in,
remember that we there, if we have a look at auth,
we got a response that actually contained this ID token property,
that's the token we need to send to the backend.
So it would make sense to kind of store that token so that we can use it to send it to the backend, I'll
quickly add a console log statement here in the auth action creator again so that we can see the exact
data we got back when logging in.
So if I login one more time,
you see that before we get this error, if we scroll up, we get this object and there we have this ID
token thing we're interested in,
so this is what I want to store. Now we can of course store it in our redux store, for that I'll add a
new action type here in my action types file and I will export a const which I'll name auth set token and
that will of course also be my identifier,
this is an action I want to dispatch which should contain the token so that I can store it in my redux
store.
So first of all, I'll import that here at the top, auth set token and then I'll add a new method,
so export const auth set token maybe where I do get this token
and where I then
return a javascript object where the type is auth set token and where I pass on the token. I can now dispatch
auth set token when we do successfully login,
so here, here I will dispatch auth set token and in parsed response, this is what we just saw,
we now got this ID token property we can access that will hold the token.
So now I pass this on and I return this object, auth set token and to make sure that I can never execute
this code without having one, I'll switch my first div check to not check if we got an error
but to check if we don't have the ID token field because if that's not there, we should never execute
this and we should always return authentication failed
and as I said before, you can of course change this, you can add another catch block after this to catch all
errors,
you can use this part here to not immediately return the
json so the extracted body but check the response status first,
status is another property you got on this response object,
so these are all things you can do.
I will go with that approach,
I now set the token or dispatch this action,
I can now add a fitting reducer so I will add auth.js in the reducers file and in there, I'll import
something from my actions, from the action types, that something is of course auth set token
then I'll add my reducer function here where I get action and excuse me, where I get state and action and
then do something with that.
I will set up an initial state, so initial state which is a javascript object where I will have a token,
so where I will add a token property that is null initially and the state is set to this initial state
and then here in the reducer, I'll add my switch case statement where I switch the action type and
I then see if the case is auth set token, if it's not or in default cases, I just want to return the
state, if it is auth set token then I'll return a new javascript object where for immutability reasons
I distribute the old state first and then as a second step, I'll set the token to the token we get with
our auth set token action.
With all that, I can export this reducer so export default reducer here and I can now use it in configure
store to add it to the other reducers into our root reducer.
So I'll import auth reducer from reducers auth and I will add an auth property to our combined reducers and
add the auth reducer here.
So now we get the auth reducer in the game and we can store the token there, with the token stored there,
we can then later use it but first of all, let's see if that all works.
So let's save this and in the debugging tools, I'll expand the redux section here and I'll reload the app and
I'll try to login,
so I'll use the credentials from before and we do trigger auth set token and
we still do get the error because we don't use the token
but if we click on auth set token and inspect the state and there the auth state, we see that the token indeed
was stored there
and that's this json web token I was talking about.
So with that we're storing the token if we login,
let's now also try it for signing up,
so for that I need to use a new email address here,
sign up and there, we also call auth set token, so this also works
in this case, here we also have the token. So the token is stored, in the next lecture
let's make sure that we also can fetch it.